repos/plywood/docs/PlyTool.md, before:

<% title "PlyTool Reference" %>
<% synopsis 
PlyTool is a tool to help generate build pipelines and manage external dependencies.
%>

## Folder Commands

<% member plytool folder list %>

Outputs a list of build folders.

Build folders are found by recursively scanning `data/build` relative to the workspace root for folders containing `info.pylon`.

<% member plytool folder set [em <folderName>] %>

Sets the current build folder to _name_. The current build folder name is stored in `workspace-settings.pylon` in the workspace root.

<% member plytool folder create [em <folderName>] %>

Creates a new build folder inside `data/build` relative to the workspace root and makes it the current build folder.

<% member plytool folder delete [em <folderName>] %>

Deletes the specified build folder.

<% endMembers %>

## Module Commands

<% member plytool module list %>

Outputs a list of available modules across all repos.

<% endMembers %>

## Target Commands

<% member plytool target list %>

Outputs the current build folder's root target list. The root target list is stored in the build folder's `info.pylon`.

<% member plytool target add [em <targetName>] %>

Adds a new root target to the current build folder.

<% member plytool target remove [em <targetName>] %>

Removes a new root target from the current build folder.

<% member plytool target graph %>

Outputs a dependency graph for the current build folder.

<% member plytool target set [em <targetName>] %>

Sets the active target for the current build folder. This is the target that `plytool run` will run by default.

<% endMembers %>

## Extern Commands

<% member plytool extern list %>

Outputs a list of known externs as defined by the available repos.

<% member plytool extern selected %>

Outputs a list of extern providers selected in the current build folder.

<% member plytool extern select [em <providerName>] %>

Selects an extern provider in the current build folder.

<% member plytool extern install [em <providerName>] %>

Installs the specified extern provider.

<% endMembers %>

## Generate Commands

<% member plytool generate \[--config=[em <configName>\]%>

Generates a build system inside the current build folder by running CMake. When using a single-configuration generator, such as "Unix Makefiles", each configuration gets its own build system. For such generators, the optional `--config` argument can be used to override the active configuration for the current build folder.

<% member plytool build \[--target=[em <targetName>]\] \[--config=[em <configName>\] %>

Runs the build system inside the current build folder. This command will also generate a build system in the current build folder, but only if no existing build system is found. By default, all targets in the build folder are built using the build folder's active configuration. If the `--target` option is specified, only the specified target and its dependencies are built. If the `--config` option is specified, the specified configuration is built instead.

<% member plytool run \[--target=[em <targetName>]\] \[--config=[em <configName>\] \[--nobuild\] %>

Build and runs an executable target inside the current build folder. This command will also generate a build system in the current build folder, but only if no existing build system is found. By default, the build folder's active target is run using the active configuration. If the `--target` option is specified, the specified target is built & run instead. The active target can be set using `plytool target set`.  If the `--config` option is specified, the specified configuration is built & run instead. If the `--nobuild` option is specified, the build step is skipped.

<% member plytool codegen %>

Performs code generation across all repos.

<% member plytool bootstrap %>

Generate the bootstrap files necessary to set up Plywood on a new system. The generated files, relative to the workspace root, are:

* `repos/plywood/scripts/bootstrap_CMakeLists.txt`
* `repos/plywood/scripts/bootstrap_Config.txt`

<% endMembers %>

Commit message:

PlyTool: Make target a positional argument
You now run 'plytool run WebCooker' instead of 'plytool run --target=WebCooker'.

repos/plywood/docs/PlyTool.md, after:

<% title "PlyTool Reference" %>
<% synopsis 
PlyTool is a tool to help generate build pipelines and manage external dependencies.
%>

## Folder Commands

<% member plytool folder list %>

Outputs a list of build folders.

Build folders are found by recursively scanning `data/build` relative to the workspace root for folders containing `info.pylon`.

<% member plytool folder set [em <folderName>] %>

Sets the current build folder to _name_. The current build folder name is stored in `workspace-settings.pylon` in the workspace root.

<% member plytool folder create [em <folderName>] %>

Creates a new build folder inside `data/build` relative to the workspace root and makes it the current build folder.

<% member plytool folder delete [em <folderName>] %>

Deletes the specified build folder.

<% endMembers %>

## Module Commands

<% member plytool module list %>

Outputs a list of available modules across all repos.

<% endMembers %>

## Target Commands

<% member plytool target list %>

Outputs the current build folder's root target list. The root target list is stored in the build folder's `info.pylon`.

<% member plytool target add [em <targetName>] %>

Adds a new root target to the current build folder.

<% member plytool target remove [em <targetName>] %>

Removes a new root target from the current build folder.

<% member plytool target graph %>

Outputs a dependency graph for the current build folder.

<% member plytool target set [em <targetName>] %>

Sets the active target for the current build folder. This is the target that `plytool run` will run by default.

<% endMembers %>

## Extern Commands

<% member plytool extern list %>

Outputs a list of known externs as defined by the available repos.

<% member plytool extern selected %>

Outputs a list of extern providers selected in the current build folder.

<% member plytool extern select [em <providerName>] %>

Selects an extern provider in the current build folder.

<% member plytool extern install [em <providerName>] %>

Installs the specified extern provider.

<% endMembers %>

## Generate Commands

<% member plytool generate \[--config=[em <configName>\]%>

Generates a build system inside the current build folder by running CMake. When using a single-configuration generator, such as "Unix Makefiles", each configuration gets its own build system. For such generators, the optional `--config` argument can be used to override the active configuration for the current build folder.

<% member plytool build \[[em <targetName>]\] \[--config=[em <configName>]\] %>

Runs the build system inside the current build folder. This command will also generate a build system in the current build folder, but only if no existing build system is found. If *targetName* is specified, only the specified target and its dependencies are built; otherwise, all targets in the build folder are built. If the `--config` option is specified, the specified configuration is built; otherwise, the folder's active configuration is built.

<% member plytool run \[[em <targetName>]\] \[--config=[em <configName>]\] \[--nobuild\] %>

Build and runs an executable target inside the current build folder. By default, this command will also generate a build system in the current build folder, but only if no existing build system is found. If the `--nobuild` option is specified, the generate & build steps are skipped. If *targetName* is specified, the specified target is built & run; otherwise, the build folder's active target is built & run. If the `--config` option is specified, the specified configuration is built; otherwise, the build folder's active configuration is built.

<% member plytool codegen %>

Performs code generation across all repos.

<% member plytool bootstrap %>

Generate the bootstrap files necessary to set up Plywood on a new system. The generated files, relative to the workspace root, are:

* `repos/plywood/scripts/bootstrap_CMakeLists.txt`
* `repos/plywood/scripts/bootstrap_Config.txt`

<% endMembers %>
